docs/executive/executive-one-pager.md, before:

---
id: executive-one-pager
title: Executive One Pager, Project Mycelia
---

# Executive One Pager

Date, October 6, 2025

This one pager presents the vision, pillars, funding context, levers, and near term milestones for Project Mycelia.

## 1. Vision

Convergence of scalable blockchain infrastructure, a minable native asset, and a Web4 browser for a user sovereign web.

## 2. Three Pillars

1. The Mycelia Blockchain, a high performance Layer 1 for scalability, security, and decentralization.
2. The BLOOM Token and Core Applications, a minable native currency with a multi asset wallet and an IPFS native contribution app.
3. The Mycelia Navigator, a Web4 browser that acts as an operating shell for the decentralized web.

## 3. Funding Context

Budget, twenty billion dollars, allocated for top talent and a multi year strategy.

## 4. Top Five Strategic Levers

1. Build a secure Layer 1 with strong interop.
2. Prove Proof of Contribution mining at scale.
3. Ship a trusted wallet and contribution client.
4. Launch the Navigator for daily use.
5. Establish research and standards leadership.

## 5. 90 Day Slice

Team formation, architecture baselines, tokenomics draft, wallet and mining prototypes, and Navigator shell.

## 6. 12 Month Headlines

Testnet for Layer 1, wallet GA, mining service active, Navigator beta, partner integrations, and draft standards.

For architecture, see the overview diagram in Diagrams, [Layer 1 Architecture](/diagrams/l1-architecture).

Commit message:

feat(diagnostics): add @mycelia/diagnostics one-shot health CLI with peg, PoR, mint-guard, redemption, mining, capabilities, workspaces, and docs checks
- new workspace package: @mycelia/diagnostics (TypeScript CLI)
- root scripts: diagnose and diagnose:dev (PowerShell safe)
- checks:
  - exact peg math 10 BLOOM = 1 BTC
  - PoR  required for current supply
  - mint guard blocks over-mint
  - redemption burns supply and quotes sats at peg
  - mining accrual path books events (demo)
  - capabilities enforced for Oracle queries
  - workspaces rules deterministic switch
  - docs contain treasury and peg statements
- exit non-zero on failures for CI gating

docs/executive/executive-one-pager.md, after:

---
id: executive-one-pager
title: Executive One Pager, Project Mycelia
---

# Executive One Pager

Date, October 6, 2025

This one pager presents the vision, pillars, funding context, levers, and near term milestones for Project Mycelia.

## 1. Vision

Convergence of scalable blockchain infrastructure, a minable native asset, and a Web4 browser for a user sovereign web.

## 2. Three Pillars

1. The Mycelia Blockchain, a high performance Layer 1 for scalability, security, and decentralization.
2. The BLOOM Token and Core Applications, a minable native currency with a multi asset wallet and an IPFS native contribution app.
3. The Mycelia Navigator, a Web4 browser that acts as an operating shell for the decentralized web.

### BLOOM Token Peg

The BLOOM token is fixed at a hard peg of 10 BLOOM for 1 BTC. Each BLOOM is fully redeemable for BTC at the fixed rate, backed by locked Bitcoin reserves. Minting halts automatically if reserves would fall below full collateral.

## 3. Funding Context

A foundational component of the Mycelia ecosystem is its substantial financial backing. The project is supported by a treasury of $20,000,000,000 (Twenty Billion USD), secured entirely through cash donations. This capital fully underwrites the project's operational budget, collateralizes its treasury, and guarantees the network's long term financial sovereignty and stability.

## 4. Top Five Strategic Levers

1. Build a secure Layer 1 with strong interop.
2. Prove Proof of Contribution mining at scale.
3. Ship a trusted wallet and contribution client.
4. Launch the Navigator for daily use.
5. Establish research and standards leadership.

## 5. 90 Day Slice

Team formation, architecture baselines, tokenomics draft, wallet and mining prototypes, and Navigator shell.

## 6. 12 Month Headlines

Testnet for Layer 1, wallet GA, mining service active, Navigator beta, partner integrations, and draft standards.

For architecture, see the overview diagram in Diagrams, [Layer 1 Architecture](/diagrams/l1-architecture).
